## 3.10 Additional instructions

If you are purely learning assembly language, you can start with "In-depth understanding of programming: using Linux assembly language", which describes how to implement the assembler in C language. If you are learning X86 assembly, you can learn about the use of advanced assembly instructions such as AVX from the beginning of "Assembly Language: Based on x86 Processor" and then in conjunction with "Modern x86 Assembly Language Programming".

The official documentation for Go assembly language is very scarce. The "A Quick Guide to Go's Assembler" is the only official article on the Go assembly language, which introduces two other Plan9 documents: A Manual for the Plan 9 assembler and Plan 9 C Compilers. The two documents in Plan9 describe the details of assembly language and the C compiler associated with the assembly. After reading these documents, there will be some vague concepts about Go assembly language, and the rest is learned through code in actual combat.

The Go language compiler and assembler both have a `-S` parameter to view the final target code generated. By comparing the difference between the target code and the original Go or Go assembly language code, you can deepen your understanding of the underlying implementation. At the same time, the implementation code of the Go language connector also contains a lot of relevant information. Go assembly language is a language that relies on the Go language, so understanding the working principle of the Go language is also necessary. The more important part is the implementation principle of Go language runtime and reflect package. If the reader understands CGO technology, then learning Go assembly language is also a huge help. The last step is to understand how the syscall package implements system calls.

Thanks to the Go language design, the advantages of Go assembly language are also very obvious: the usage between the operating system and different CPUs is very similar, support C language preprocessor, support modules. At the same time, Go assembly language has many shortcomings: it is not a separate language, the underlying needs to rely on Go language or even operating system; many advanced features are difficult to accomplish by manual assembly. Although the Go language officially tries to keep Go assembly language as simple as possible, assembly language is a relatively large topic, large enough to write a tutorial on Go assembly language. The purpose of this chapter is to get you started with a simple introduction to Go assembly language. You won't be confused when you see the underlying assembly code, and you can break through the limitations of Go assembly in some situations where performance is limited.